Capstone Project


1 Define

1.1   Buisness context, stakeholders and value

Business context

	There is a lack of organization in smaller scale kitchens.
	The intent of this software is to create an easy to use database for recipe creatation, prep sheets and inventory sheets

	There is room for and expantion to make this a full menu costing and inventory app, but the focus must be on ease of use
	i.e. at no point should the menu builder be harder to use then a word processor
		what I need to be able to offer in this project is
			1. A reactive menu page that can be accessed via phone/tablet
			2. A simple way to write, edit and upload recipes
			3. The ability to print a copy of said recipe
			4. A well organized database page with enough filters to easily access the recipes needed

Understanding and engagement of stakeholder
	
	The software must be quick and simple to use, including all practial information on the sheets.  
	They must be easy to edit and provide a printable version as well as be able to be 	accessed by multiple parties.
	The pages must be simple, open and reactive as many pages will be accessed through tablets and cellphones.

User Needs

	A simple, easy to access list of functions that all integrate with one another.
	If I'm adding items to an inventory, it should be able to be accessed by prep sheets, recipe sheets, 
	inventory sheets and a costing sheet all the same.


2 Design

2.1 Git/README

	README.... this will need to be done after the program is finishedd
	Hold 2 frequently used git branches, 'main' and 'dev'.  Every major component finished will necessitate an upload to the 'main' branch
	work done in between will only be worked off dev.
	Everytime a full feature has been completed, create a new 'version/stage/etc' branch
	so that if major issues arise between features I can easily start from scratch without having to sift through git logs.


2.2 Documentation
	
	Problem is simple... lack of software and providing recipe libraries for small businesses.  Smaller restaurant and catering businesses rarely have designated office hours or executives.
	Solution will come with a simple straightforward UI and a couple of well-formed databases that communicate with each other.

2.3 Project Planning

	Well.. this planning document
	Continue using google sheet.
	Figma, make a good figma page.
		Include list of features possible.  What will be focused on, how they will interact.
		Make a simple layout of each page and include the plan for each major component (ex. use MUI, build from scratch, logic behind each)
		In same figma file, write out layout plan for each database table

2.4 Testing

	This is a big dark spot on my current knowledge...
	Study unit testing and find how to execute this

3 Delivery

3.1 Quality of Server

	MVC model framework already made somewhere in previous lessons... not a
	Using mySQL so need, mysql2, sequelize
	Use express, cors, body-parser(if form data needed), maybe socket for communication between server/client
	DON'T FORGET TO COMMENT CODE

3.2 User Interface

	Simple/Straightforward... don't waste time
	Use MUI as much as is practical

3.3 Functionalities

	This is business software so this should be the focus
	Good knowledge on how to access a database is needed and the databases need to be well laid out

3.4 Live Demo, Audience Engagement, Poise

	Experience in field good
	Make an engaging slide show... everyone loves slideshows........

